Let me ask you a question. Cause now this is I'm wondering,
cause you're talking about sort of evolving to a place where your body and like
when you had James on and he was talking about by base,
do you have moral qualms about meat or do you not? Like you say, well, you know,
we're we're hunters and that like,
is that ever an issue for you or is it purely a health issue or is it both.
Things? Um, there's a health issue. There is a moral qualm with factory farming.
There's not a moral quorum qualm with help with hunting because I know the
reality of the life of a deer. If you don't kill that deer,
it's going to die a horrible death from a Wolf or a coyote or a mountain lion or
whatever the gets ahold of it. It's going to freeze to death. It's going,
you can either die quickly by the hand of a person.
You will respect that life in a room,
nurture your body and the bodies of your family.
Our problem is disconnection more than anything. And let me tell you something,
when the COVID lockdown happened,
I got more requests from friends and more requests for information about hunting
and gun ownership.
How do I protect myself and how do I feed myself and how do I grow food?
Those were three really big questions that I kept getting from people.
It's funny. I have such a different perspective on it in terms of just the,
um, the relationship between myself and I didn't. I was a big meat eater.
It's big like deli guy, the Stromae and corn beef and all that. My wife, uh,
got into rescue and these types of things.
And we ended up with a farm with pigs and goats and sheep and things like that.
And it became untenable for me
to make that decision. You know, that, that sort of, that decision of,
uh, I think you'll be better off if I kill you.
And it became,
it was something I could no longer manage once I knew the
process of it and that it was a hard,
it's been a very hard process for me. It's only been about four or five years.
How was your health? Um, I mean, I'm an old Jew,
so baseline pretty much, uh,
we don't age well to begin with.
How old are you now, John? We age.
A bit like avocados when you leave them out. Um, I'm 57.
I'm 52. So we're in similar boat.
Similar boat. Yeah, but I mean, it's, it's hard to know.
I feel good. You know,
if you look at markers like cholesterol or blood pressure,
those things it's better. But like you said, I don't,
I don't know enough about how the body processes
to know if I'm, I feel better. The numbers say I'm better,
but you know, genetics, I'm sure it plays a part in it as well.
But the funny thing is like, I don't think about it anymore.
Like it just don't even think about it anymore. Well, once you.
Get into a, a custom and once your gut biome changes, you know,
you really get accustomed to whatever you're eating good or bad, unfortunately.
And that's one of the reasons why people have such a hard time,
quitting sugar and bread and pasta and things along those lines.
So your body just craves it. That's what it wants.
When you start eating healthier food, your body does crave.
That can go off of meat and still be incredibly unhealthy. Like, you know,
you can be vegan and just exist on lays potato chips, right?
So it is, you know, and it,
and it's a tougher road and the world is certainly not, uh,
it's not built for that. And it's, it certainly feels a little bit,
uh, of a narrower lane that you have to do.
And I also think it's an incredibly emotional topic,
like very little that's as emotional and personal as what
people put in their bodies and how they eat and what they do.
And I'm always very respectful because I also, I got no leg to stand on, man.
I like, this is what I'm doing. It feels better for me, but I,
I always say like,
but it's such a personal,
an individual choice than you everybody's got to do for themselves.
The only thing I would say is like,
I do think it's important for people to get educated on it, to read up on,
like you say, factory farming or what might be the, you know,
nutritional costs of it, or what are some of the things that are in it?
Or what maybe is it going to do to our immunity? When, you know,
we use so many antibiotics in the meat production. I,
the that's the only thing I say is like,
try and educate yourself how your meal gets to your table.
That's why I'm a huge advocate for like local farming and agriculture,
because those are the people they're just growing their food and they're
bringing it to your table. I find that incredible. But,
but I also don't,
I try not to take a position of judgment on people because I feel like that's
unfair. I think.
That's very wise of you.
And I think that there's a lot of people that share your position on animal
death.
And I think that's one of the more promising aspects of laboratory created meat.
As long as it can be done in a way that's actually going to be healthy for us.
It seems like there's some real science behind that. And they're very,
very close to releasing that on large scale.
So it would be actual meat that doesn't come with death,
which is really fascinating.
Oh yeah. Yeah. You're talking about like the, the, the, the one that they had,
I saw like it's a tank and he pulls out it's like $20,000 for a chicken breast,
right? Oh, they did.
That. Yeah. It was really expensive at one point in time,
but they've gotten it down to a burger now.
Like they can actually make a burger out of this stuff. And, um,
they feel like as this, this technology improves,
they essentially flesh when it's not.
Would you, if you could, if you could still have the, the,
the part of me that you liked, but it came without death.
Do you think you would make that switch or is that something that well,
I certainly.
Would with domestic animals, the difference between that and hunting, there's a,
there's a conservation aspect of it. Um, one thing that leads to, uh,
protection of wildlife habitat is actually the money that comes from hunting
tags and hunting equipment. Um, there's that,
there's also the,
the type of relationship you have with your food when you actually
work very hard and hunt it and kill it is very different than
buying food from a store.
And I would say similar in a similar way.
Oh, food. When you go to whole foods, sometimes you really got to stop that,
you know, there's, there's a lot that goes into that, the trip to whole foods.
Yeah. It's hard to find a good parking spot.
Yeah. I get it. Um,
growing your own food in your backyard is very satisfying too.
And I say to people like that's a micro cause I'm like,
it's a very micro form of what it feels like to hunt an animal and then eat it
and feed your family for, you know, if I shoot an elk, I,
I eat it literally for a year.
So one animal death equals like a year of my meals.
And, um, you know, there's also the moral high ground position.
You know,
I think a lot of people love to look at the moral high ground
of eating vegetables and only eating vegetables as being a superior way to
live their life. And that's, that's a good decision.
I understand where you're coming from.
I understand that there's people that look at life very differently than me.
They maybe don't have this sort of fatalistic perspective,
even though it's respectful.
I have a very fatalistic perspective when it comes to just all organic
organisms competing for resources and for, for life,
these animals, I mean, I've run into them when they've killed each other.
I've seen animals that have been taken out by other animals.
I've come across their bodies, torn apart by wolves in the woods. It's a wild,
wild thing out there, man.
And I think we're so insulated by it in our culture of today,
that it's one of the reasons why veganism and all these things are becoming so
attractive. I would hope that along with that,
we're going to be nicer to each other, that we're going to be,
we're going to grow to be a kinder human race. I really, I really.
Hope that. Yeah, because I think it's, it's about consideration, you know,
for me, I think it was,
there was a certain part of consciousness that I never ascribed to
animals to some extent. And it's funny because I always thought of myself as,
oh, I, you know, I love animals. I always had dogs and cats and you know,
you find a bird with a broken way and you stick them in a box.
And two weeks later he flies away and you're a hero,
but I never really ascribed like individuality to them.
And I think that was the change for me,
was interacting in an
individual way with different on the font. You know,
I always did tell him about her once, once we named them, that's fine. Yeah.
You watch them like they're playing though. They'll play. Are they? And it,
it just changed my relationship to what
I wanted it to be with animals. And it, it,
it just made it untenable in that moment for me.
But I truly understand like that, that is in, uh,
a really individualized, personalized experience that,
that, that I made. And like I said,
I would love it for people to make that connection,
because I think it's profound. There is,
there is something about that connection for people that when they do see it,
you know, it's funny, I'll talk about the pigs and I'll be like, what will,
you know, the, whatever they just eat everything. You're like, no,
they're really playful. They're smart. Don't do belly rubs. Yeah.
It's it's but that was shocking to me. I didn't know that I just thought, oh,
it's like a blob, but they're beings talking.
About nature, John, and there's nothing natural about a farm.
That's part of the problem. I mean, it's all,
it's an animal prison and they're domesticated because we give them food and we
kind of remove the, the natural fear that they would have of any, you know,
eyeball facing forward predator, which is what we are.
Um, to precinct by to their health. Like what,
having our farm with sheep and goats and pigs,
and they're all rescues is like having a nursing home.
Like you can't believe the fragility of factory farmed animals.
Like they are to be sick, like pneumonia,
uh,
like genetically designed to gain too much weight for their legs.
It really is, you know, the island of misfit toys,
like they they've genetically modified or done whatever they've done. And,
and the health of these animals that are in our food supply,
mainstay of our food supply is really suspect.
That's why the nursing home. Yeah.
That's why I prefer hunting that when, if you're eating an animal,
that's a wild animal. You're eating an athlete. I mean, they're,
they're sinewy and thick and they're strong and they've
survived. And there's so much more nutrient dense when you're,
when you're talking about factory farmed animals, you're talking about, I mean,
w factory farmed animals,
just a worst version of what human beings are capable of that we're capable of
ignoring, suffering to the point where we lock them on warehouses.
Their goes down in a tunnel and fills a small lake up.
And they flown over these places with drones. It's horrific, right?
The pig farms in particular, they're horrific.
But when you're talking about what you're doing on your farm, like,
of course you can't eat those things, they're your pets. That would be, I mean,
you're naming them and feeding them and touching them.
I extrapolate that now. So I, I think what happened was I went, oh,
right. That's in same way that like, I love my dog,
but if you have a dog,
I wouldn't kill your dog and eat because I look at dogs now in a different way.
So I think I extrapolate to the animal kingdom in
a way, a different, I haven't, I feel like because of my wife and she's been,
she's a much kinder, smarter version of me. So,
uh,
because of her kind of showing me that relationship and experiencing myself,
like, it's just changed the way that I view.